index.md, before:

# SCCWRP R training

[R](https://www.r-project.org/) is a language for statistical computing as well as a general purpose programming language. Increasingly, it has become one of the primary languages used in data science and for data analysis across many of the natural sciences. This series of workshops will provide attendees with the foundations for continued learning of R and for analysis of a range of data types. 

## Dates (2018)

All trainings will be in the medium conference room.  Prep material will also be circulated prior to each session.  Topics are tentative and may change.  

Early training dates:

1) **2/13** Intro to R 
     * [content](Intro_to_R.html), [recording](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/sccwrpdat/2018-02-13_12.59_Intro_to_R.mp4)
     * [feedback](https://goo.gl/forms/nQbBvZHr99qkPlme2)
2) **2/20** Data wrangling I 
     * [content](Data_Wrangling_1.html)
     * Bight data
          * [chemistry](http://bit.ly/2Gpgzil)
          * [metadata](http://bit.ly/2sCBtbV)
     * [feedback](https://goo.gl/forms/uo7G8wkYF5KfxVdW2)
3) **3/7** Data wrangling II 
     * [content](Data_Wrangling_2.html)
     * Bight data
          * [chemistry](http://bit.ly/2Gpgzil)
          * [metadata](http://bit.ly/2sCBtbV)
     * [feedback](https://goo.gl/forms/89CUTgLBHr3fHXmS2)
4) **3/14** Visualization and graphics 
     * [content](Viz_and_Graphics.html)
     * [exercise data](https://github.com/SCCWRP/SCCWRP_R_training/raw/master/lessons/data/formatted_data.xlsx)
     * [feedback](https://goo.gl/forms/CANQN3aopySufdhI2)
     
R luncheons are a more informal approach to teaching you about R.  The intent is to encourage retention and continued learning from the previous lessons.  These will be short sessions (~ 1 hr) where we focus on one specific problem, e.g., creating a summary plot of data starting with a spreadsheet, formatting a dataset for an analysis, etc.  Lunch will follow each session.  

5) **7/11** [R luncheon 1](R_luncheon_1.html)
6) **8/8** [R luncheon 2](R_luncheon_2.html)
7) **9/5** [R luncheon 3](R_luncheon_3.html)
8) **10/3** [R luncheon 4](R_luncheon_4.html)

## Software requirements

Please bring a laptop with the latest version of RStudio and R installed.  The [setup instructions](setup.html) will guide you through the process.  Take note of the required R packages that you must also download and install.

## Questions

Feel free to stop by, email, or call with any questions ([marcusb@sccwrp.org](mailto:marcusb@sccwrp.org), 7147553217)

Commit message:

minor website config to navbar

index.md, after:

# SCCWRP R training

[R](https://www.r-project.org/) is a language for statistical computing as well as a general purpose programming language. Increasingly, it has become one of the primary languages used in data science and for data analysis across many of the natural sciences. This series of workshops will provide attendees with the foundations for continued learning of R and for analysis of a range of data types. 

## Dates (2018)

All trainings will be in the medium conference room.  Prep material will also be circulated prior to each session.  Topics are tentative and may change.  

__Early training dates:__

1) **2/13** Intro to R 
     * [content](Intro_to_R.html), [recording](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/sccwrpdat/2018-02-13_12.59_Intro_to_R.mp4)
     * [feedback](https://goo.gl/forms/nQbBvZHr99qkPlme2)
2) **2/20** Data wrangling I 
     * [content](Data_Wrangling_1.html)
     * Bight data
          * [chemistry](http://bit.ly/2Gpgzil)
          * [metadata](http://bit.ly/2sCBtbV)
     * [feedback](https://goo.gl/forms/uo7G8wkYF5KfxVdW2)
3) **3/7** Data wrangling II 
     * [content](Data_Wrangling_2.html)
     * Bight data
          * [chemistry](http://bit.ly/2Gpgzil)
          * [metadata](http://bit.ly/2sCBtbV)
     * [feedback](https://goo.gl/forms/89CUTgLBHr3fHXmS2)
4) **3/14** Visualization and graphics 
     * [content](Viz_and_Graphics.html)
     * [exercise data](https://github.com/SCCWRP/SCCWRP_R_training/raw/master/lessons/data/formatted_data.xlsx)
     * [feedback](https://goo.gl/forms/CANQN3aopySufdhI2)
     
__R luncheons:__

R luncheons are a more informal approach to teaching you about R.  The intent is to encourage retention and continued learning from the previous lessons.  These will be short sessions (~ 1 hr) where we focus on one specific problem, e.g., creating a summary plot of data starting with a spreadsheet, formatting a dataset for an analysis, etc.  Lunch will follow each session.  

1) **7/11** R luncheon 1
      * [content](R_luncheon_1.html)
      * [RSVP](https://goo.gl/forms/s858rTtqcyeLt4it1)
2) **8/8** R luncheon 2
      * [content](R_luncheon_2.html)
3) **9/5** R luncheon 3
      * [content](R_luncheon_3.html)
4) **10/3** R luncheon 4
      * [content](R_luncheon_4.html)

## Software requirements

Please bring a laptop with the latest version of RStudio and R installed.  The [setup instructions](setup.html) will guide you through the process.  Take note of the required R packages that you must also download and install.

## Source content

All source materials for this website can be accessed at https://github.com/SCCWRP/SCCWRP_R_training

## Questions

Feel free to stop by, email, or call with any questions ([marcusb@sccwrp.org](mailto:marcusb@sccwrp.org), 7147553217)
